SRVOCF-309: Add kn func emit command docs (#33985)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/serverless-kn-func-emit.adoc

[id="serverless-kn-func-emit_{context}"]
= Emitting a test event to a deployed function

You can use the `kn func emit` CLI command to emit a CloudEvent to a function that is either deployed locally or deployed to your {product-title} cluster. This command can be used to test that a function is working and able to receive events correctly.

.Example command
[source,terminal]
----
$ kn func emit
----

The `kn func emit` command executes on the local directory by default, and assumes that this directory is a function project.

> == Optional parameters

Author: Split out into ref section

[id="serverless-kn-func-emit_{context}"]
= Emitting a test event to a deployed function

You can use the `kn func emit` CLI command to emit a CloudEvent to a function that is either deployed locally or deployed to your {product-title} cluster. This command can be used to test that a function is working and able to receive events correctly.

> You can specify the following parameters for the emitted CloudEvent:

Reviewer: As Zbynek says, here would be a good place to mention something like "To trigger your Function with a CloudEvent, simply run `kn func emit`.

Optionally, the CloudEvent sent to your function can be populated with custom data using the following parameters"
Or something like that.  This is the entire reason for the `kn func emit` command to exist in addition to `kn event`: the defaults.

> Event type:: The type of event being emitted. You can find information about the `type` parameter that is set for events from a certain event producer in the documentation for that event producer. For example, the API server source event source may set the `type` parameter of produced events as `dev.knative.apiserver.resource.update`.

Author: This is worded awkwardly because the OCP guidelines won't let us just use ApiServerSource but I can update it to make it better

> Event source:: The event source that produced the event. This may be a URL for the event source, for example `https://10.96.0.1/`, or the name of the event source.

Author: I think this was just a typo on my part 😄

> Event ID:: A random unique ID that is created by the event producer.

Author: It already says "unique ID" so I think it's enough to say it once?
I'll add it for source though.

> Event data:: The data contained in the event, if you are not sending events from an existing event source that already specifies data for the event. For example, if you are sending an event that uses the default settings, you can specify a `--data` value such as `"Hello world!"` so that the event will contain this data string. You can also specify what type of data is carried by the event, by using the `--content-type` flag.

Reviewer 2: Minor nit, I'd mention that these parameters are optional.

And I would add an example of invoking the command without parameters, eg:
```
# Send a CloudEvent to the deployed function with no data and default values
# for source, type and ID
kn func emit
```

> Event data:: The data contained in the event, if you are not sending events from an existing event source that already specifies data for the event. For example, if you are sending an event that uses the default settings, you can specify a `--data` value such as `"Hello world!"` so that the event will contain this data string. You can also specify what type of data is carried by the event, by using the `--content-type` flag.

Reviewer 3: Should the `--content-type` flag be called out on its own? It seems odd that it's smashed in here with `--data`. Some of the language here is also a bit unclear to me. A clumsy suggestion, but hopefully useful.
```suggestion
Event data:: The event data. For example, you can specify a `--data` value such as `"Hello world!"` so that the event's data property is this string. By default, no data is included in the synthetic events created by `kn func emit`.
Data content type: You can also specify what type of data is carried by the event, by using the `--content-type` flag. In the example above, you might provide `text/plain`, e.g. `func emit --data "Hello world!" --content-type "text/plain"`.
```

Author: The reason they're together is because presumably you would only use the content type flag if you actually specify data as well, otherwise it wouldn't be relevant?

Author: Made some updates, lmk what you think

> You can specify these parameters by using the `kn func emit` CLI command flags, or by specifying a file on disk that contains this information for the event:

Reviewer 3: This is not actually true. The various event fields may be specified using the flags only, except for data. This can be specified using the `--data` flag, or `--file`, pointing to a file that contains the data.

> 

Reviewer: The very first example should probably just be `kn func emit` so the reader knows that all the stuff is optional.  Otherwise, it could be a little overwhelming :)

.Example command
[source,terminal]
----
$ kn func emit
----

The `kn func emit` command executes on the local directory by default, and assumes that this directory is a function project.

== Optional parameters

You can specify the following optional parameters for the emitted CloudEvent, by using the `kn func emit` CLI command flags:

Event type:: The type of event being emitted. You can find information about the `type` parameter that is set for events from a certain event producer in the documentation for that event producer. For example, the API server source may set the `type` parameter of produced events as `dev.knative.apiserver.resource.update`.
Event source:: The unique event source that produced the event. This may be a URI for the event source, for example `https://10.96.0.1/`, or the name of the event source.
Event ID:: A random, unique ID that is created by the event producer.
Event data:: The data contained in the event. For example, you can specify a `--data` value such as `"Hello world!"` so that the event contains this data string. By default, no data is included in the events created by `kn func emit`.
+
[NOTE]
====

> If you are sending events from an existing event source, the event source might already specify data for produced events.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure I understand the intent of this note. The `kn func emit` command does not send from an existing source. I think there is value in mentioning existing event sources, but I wonder if this could be expanded a bit to be a little clearer. This is just a suggestion. 

```suggestion
Functions that have been deployed to a cluster may be responding to events from an existing event source that provides values for properties such as `source` and `type` noted above. These events often have a `data` value in JSON form, that captures the domain specific context of the event. For example, an event sent from Apache Camel may have a `type` of `org.apache.camel.event` and a `data` property containing data associated with the Camel event. Using the CLI flags noted in this document, developers can simulate those events for local testing.
```

Author: Sounds good, thanks. I did remove the bit about camel though since camel sources are deprecated now afaik.

====
+

> You can also use this flag to specify a file on disk that contains data for the event.

Reviewer 3: Specifying a file for the data uses a different flag, `--file`.
```suggestion
You can also send event data using the `--file` flag to provide a local file containing data for the event.
```
